I said, 'Why hasn't Brennan been charged
yet? I mean, they charged Comey with
some silly crime that's probably going
to get thrown out. Why haven't they
charged Brennan? And he said, um,
because they want to get that one right.
>> Mhm. [clears throat]
>> Yeah.
They have an interesting
perspective on Brennan. You know, most
federal crimes have a 5-year statute of
limitations. most
um what we've heard Brennan would be
charged with
has either a 5-year or a one-year
statute of limitations. I they're
they're talking about contempt of
Congress. Big deal. The federal
sentencing guideline calls for no prison
time,
>> right?
>> So, who cares if he if he was in
contempt of Congress? I don't care.
um lying to Congress. He probably has
crossed the statute of limitations. They
probably can't charge him. But what
their idea is is that the Hunter Biden
laptop memo, the Russia NIE, the Russia
analysis was all part of an ongoing
conspiracy
to deny American voters
their dulyeleed
president.
So, the statute of limitations keeps
restarting itself every day so long as
this this uh conspiracy continues. And
honestly, I think they've got him on
that. I That's the thing. I think they
might too. And this is where this is
where it gets weird for me
because no man's above the law, right?
And it should it should be.
>> We sent a vice president of the United
States to prison.
>> Yeah, that was Spiro. Agno, right? They
they got the Greek guy.
>> Yeah, but he wasn't Orthodox, so it
doesn't count.
>> Okay. All right.
>> Yeah.
>> But like I look at that and I go,
is the slippery slope of letting a man
like John Brennan be above the law
worse than the slippery slope,
>> right,
>> of the precedents that we are setting
across the board right now?
>> And it's almost like, and people at home
don't want to hear this. I don't want to
hear this either, especially when it
comes to a guy like John Brennan. But
it's almost like somebody here, we used
this example for something else earlier,
but someone here has to be the Martin
Luther King and just be like,
>> we we're bigger than this.
>> We're not doing this because it's
making, you know, we're othering each
other in this country. I I
>> see. And that's exactly why Joe Biden
should have pardoned Donald Trump.
So many people believed he that's what
he was going to do. Just like Gerald
Ford pardoned Richard Nixon for the for
the betterment of the country. Yes.
Bring the American people back together
again. Joe Biden should have pardoned
all of those Republicans.
>> I agree.
>> And he didn't.
>> I agree. I agree with you really very
much on this issue that at the end of
the day.
What's more important is the the
strength of the country and the unity of
the country.
It was a mistake
to charge Donald Trump with 34 felonies
for not filling out a freaking form for
the, you know, state business commission
or whatever the heck it was. That was
dumb.
Uh, it was a mistake to charge him. I
don't even remember what the crime was
alleged in Georgia. What was that? Oh,
he called the sec Georgia secretary of
state and said, [laughter] "Find the
votes." Okay. He was excitable that day.
It was the election. That that's that's
not a crime. That's just a guy having a
bad day. [laughter]
>> Um,
Comey, I understand they hate Comey.
Comey is an idiot, frankly, for being as
smart as he is. He's really stupid at
the same time.
>> Yeah. like to take a picture of the
shells 8647. What the [__] are you
thinking, you [__]
>> Brennan, however, is different in my
mind. I believe Brennan was trying to
enact a coup. I really believe it.
I think there's evidence that, you know,
even if even if you wanted to dress it
up and call it like a shadow coup or
something like that, however you want to
say it,
>> when you look at all the things that
were disproven that were happening on
his watch.
>> Yeah.
>> One plus one plus one plus one plus one.
>> Seriously. And look at it this way, too.
There were a lot of bad guys at the CIA
at the time that I was there in those
circles, right? I mean, we can say
terrible things about George Tennant and
John McLaclin and Mike Morurell and Jose
Rodriguez and Rick Praau and a lot of
people. We can say a lot. There were a
lot of crimes that were committed in the
name of national security. Brennan's
different. Brennan plotted against an
elected president of the United States
and he tried to use this, you know, the
intelligence community and this lawfare
against him and we can't risk that
happening again. That that is
when you put it like that, it's it's
about as sinister as it gets.
>> Yeah. Now, now here's the thing, John. I
think about this a lot.
We've been the power in the world for a
long time.
We have always had people in different
parts of power be it government,
bureaucracy,
corporate which you know one feeds the
other.
>> There's a lot of crossover
>> elites etc. where there are some awful
people and people who do corrupt things
people who get away with it sometimes
because the issue becomes bigger than
the person and they're connected enough
so we swipe it under sweep it under the
rug. But I get this strange feeling
that there is this deliberate
movement now
to paint everything that America has
ever done
>> as evil. It's all bad. Every single
[__]
>> I hear that a lot. So, I say this to a
guy who was legitimately [__] over by
the United States government and the
worst types of people in it, who knows
where evil happens and knows that we're
not perfect and knows we've done evil
[__] around the world for sure. You
know, do you have a problem with with
that narrative? Oh my god, yes. You
know, I I I go to bed at night watching
Tik Tok videos. I'll watch a hundred of
them before I finally fall asleep. And
you know, they lead me to mostly First
Amendment auditors who I just love. I I
just love them. Uh and and um
conservative um YouTubers who will go
out on the street and say, you know,
what's the best country in the world?
And you know, do you believe the United
States is the best country in the world?
And they say, oh, you know, I would like
to live in Denmark or
>> this is the best country on earth.
Period. I've been to 72 countries. I'm
going to add another five more by the
end of next year. This is the best
country on earth. Of course, we have
problems because we're human. But but
the founding fathers gave us a system
that is
perfect for
resolving those problems. Right? The
three co-equal branches of government.
It's a little a skew right now, but it's
going to return to where uh where it
should be. It always does.
>> You think so?
>> I do. It always has through history. Um
and it it will again,
>> but um
>> what has to happen for it to return
there?
>> Congress needs to find where what
happened to its ball sack?
>> It vanished
>> once upon a time.
>> I remember Jimmy Carter complaining. I
was a kid. I was in high school. Jimmy
Carter complaining that uh he couldn't
get anything done because Congress
wouldn't do what he what he told him to
do and the Democrats controlled both
houses of Congress and they were like,
"We don't work for you.
>> Co-equal branches of government." Well,
we've forgotten that, right?
>> And so [clears throat] the Democrats are
in lock step with Joe Biden. The
Republicans are in lock step with Donald
Trump. That's not the way it's supposed
to be. Yes, work together. But look look
at the 80s under the Reagan uh
presidency. Uh the Democrats controlled
the House, the Republicans controlled
the Senate for the first four years or
six years of the either four or six, I
can't remember anymore, of the uh Reagan
presidency, but the speaker of the house
was a Massachusetts liberal named Tip
O'Neal.
>> And what happened? The president would
invite him over for breakfast and they
would sit and hash things out because
they were both gentlemen and that's how
you got business done in Washington.
>> Let's make a deal.
>> Exactly. Everything is open to
negotiation. Everything.
So, let's negotiate.
>> And you think we can get back to that?
>> I do. I think we can get back to that.
>> Mhm.
>> Besides, you know, the broad general
point, which is appreciated if Congress
has to find their balls again.
>> Yeah. They're all bums.
>> Yeah. But so how do you flush out the
attitudes that have formed on both sides
within Congress and and Senate at this
point where they don't want to do that?
>> I think that we need to elect more
independent thinkers. Listen, I made
fun, for example, I made awful fun of
Marjorie Taylor Green when she was first
elected. You know, the Jewish space
lasers and cheating on her husband. And
>> I find myself agreeing with Marjorie
Taylor Green like 80% of the time now.
>> Wow.
>> It's nuts. I haven't changed. I see
Marjorie Taylor Green as having matured
in her role as a member of Congress.
>> Yeah. [clears throat] Like, wait a
minute. Wait a minute. This isn't how
Congress is supposed to work.
>> What do you like about what she says?
Um, I see her as something of a of a
very out there civil libertarian
>> in the in the mold of uh
of um
Tom Massie, Thomas Massie, let's say.
She's not as smart as Thomas Massie, of
course, but they take a lot of similar
positions like uh Rand Paul is another
example. Bernie Sanders on the on the
Democratic side is another one, but I
think we need more people like that.
There's a guy who's been running in the
Democratic primary against Nancy Pelosi
for years. I met him in like 2016. I
don't remember his name. It's an Indian
name and I I just don't recall what it
is. The guy's an attorney. He's very
smart, very bright guy. He's an
activist.
We need for him to run against people
like Nancy Pelosi. I I think my lucky
star is that Nancy Pelissi is not
running for re-election. Of course,
she's so young at 82, right?
>> That's the guy. That's the guy. I met
him at the uh San Francisco Film
Festival when we we stopped and chatted.
I had never heard of him before.
>> How do you say that name? I just
butchered that.
>> Chakraarti.
>> Chakraarti. I've got a friend um he's an
originally Indian naturalized American,
Bert Thacker. Shout out to Bert Thacker.
>> Shout out Bert.
>> Bert um
Bert's a two-time Jeopardy champion. Uh
number one. Number two, he is a former
Republican congressional candidate in
Southern California, moved to Texas, got
himself elected to the city council in
the city he went to, and is already
planning his congressional campaign.
We need to have 435 people like Bert
Thacker because then we would get stuff
done in this country. Bert cares almost
not at all about party affiliation. He
happens to be a Republican,
>> right?
>> But he just wants to get stuff solved,
>> get things done. I think a big
difference today that's causing a huge
problem which should be like the biggest
benefit ever is the fact that all of us
have a voice behind a keyboard
>> online and we police each other for
thought. Now where does that sound very
familiar from? Online that then forces
its way towards the ballot box and the
people who get elected there who are
from that same world and understand it
or if they're not from that world
understand that they have to live in it.
So, for example, your Nancy Pelosi, you
can't possibly make a deal with Donald
Trump. That won't play well on Tik Tok.
It won't No, you could. It won't play
well on Instagram. It won't play well on
Twitter. And you're going to be viewed
as a traitor to your people for doing
that. Whereas Nancy Pelosi could have
tied one off, you know, [__] 25 years
ago if Donald Trump were president and,
you know, come up with a deal at a
[__] K Street Steakhouse and [__]
could have actually happened, which is
exactly how Washington used to work.
Yes, you're exactly right. You knew that
if you went to the Oval Room at 9:00 on
on a Tuesday night, the entire Senate
leadership was going to be there having
stakes and trying to figure out what to
do about the budget. right
>> at the Trump hotel when it when there
was a Trump hotel in Washington. I went
with friends a couple of times,
more than a couple of times, and we
joked that like, my god, is there a
single member of the Republican House
leadership who's not at the bar right
now? [laughter]
Like literally every single one of them,
but that's how you get stuff done.
>> Yes.
When I was in college,
um it was quite common for members of
Congress to share group houses up on
Capitol Hill. You'd pack six, seven,
eight guys in a in a house because it's
expensive in Washington. You have to
maintain a house in your district,
right? And your family's probably in the
district. You still have to have
somewhere to live in Washington. So, and
they they don't really make any money.
Well, they do now. Two great stock
pickers.
>> 220. It's like a miracle. Like a
miracle.
>> They're incredible at it. the crystal
ball. So, um,
so it wasn't unusual to have, you know,
three Dems and three Republicans in a
house or four and four. They'd play
poker on Fridays, they'd go to church
together on Sundays, and then, you know,
they would argue in committee, but
they're all friends and they knew that
at the end of the day, they could
negotiate a deal.
>> And that's just not the case anymore.
>> Yeah. That's why that's where I'm having
trouble seeing how that becomes the case
again.
>> Yeah. because of how people have just
been so, you know, and I in this kind of
job, I see it all the time. You know,
how much people just jump to conclusions
on the minute they hear an opinion they
don't agree with, they're gone.
>> Yeah.
>> They're really not. But they say that.
>> Oh, I get that all the time. Listen, I'm
I'm going to say something that's going
to cause me trouble, but I'm going to
say it anyway. [sighs and gasps]
>> I gave an interview to an Indian news
outlet two weeks ago, and I didn't say
anything that I haven't said a thousand
times.
for whatever reason and this is why as a
matter of policy listen I'm serious no
more interviews to any Indian or
Pakistani news outlets ever again okay
John's policy done because they just
make [__] up
>> and put it in a banner headline with two
exclamation points and say that the CIA
this CIA officer finally reveals the
truth behind you know like no I told you
my information's 25 years old. Okay. So
I said one thing. I said in a
conventional conflict
India would beat Pakistan
because it has five times the people.
Yeah.
The death threats. I've lost count of
how many death threats I received. And
then the best of all like my my lawyer
is like got to keep a low profile. Just
be aware [laughter] aware of your
surroundings.
>> I know, right?
>> John's like, "Fuck you." [laughter]
>> So, I get a letter from the president of
Imran Khan's political party, right?
Whatever it's called, the Pakistan
whatever party.
>> You got a letter
>> a letter in the mail. you and he says
that they condemn in uh in the strongest
possible terms what I said to the
Indians and they demand an immediate
apology to his excellency the former
prime minister to the members of the
party and to the people of Pakistan
>> for giving an opinion.
>> Yeah. So my lawyer is like just throw it
away just [laughter] throw it away. So I
didn't throw it away. I sent him an
email and I said,
>> "Oh my god,
>> in regards to your demand for an
apology, I wiped my ass with your
demands for an [laughter] apology." And
I hit send
and that's how I left it and I haven't
heard back from them.
So my my my lawyer is like, "Well, that
speaking offer at the uh Pakistani
[laughter]
military academy, yeah, you're not going
to be doing that." And I said, "No, no,
I'll never go back ever again." But they
don't they don't treat me with with
respect anyway.
>> You could have just said, "Explain Bin
Laden."
>> Yeah.
>> Exactly.
>> I mean, yeah. Like it would appear
mathematically India would
>> Yeah.
>> would body bag Pakistan. No, you know,
no Pakistan. No disrespect. It's just,
you know,
>> and you know why they hate each other so
much? Because they're exactly alike.
That's why. It used to be one country,
>> right? India, Pakistan and Bangladesh
was one country called called the Indian
subcontinent,
right? And then in 1947,
India and Pakistan had a brutal bloody
war and they split off.
>> So all the Muslims went west to Pakistan
and all the Hindus went east to uh to
India. But now there are more Muslims
than there are you know pretty much
anybody else in they have a higher birth
rate in India. But anyway, and then by
1971, I think it was, Bangladesh is
like, "Screw this. They're part of
Pakistan." They were called East
Pakistan. And they're like, "Pakistan's
all the way over there. We disagree with
everything. So, we're going to be
independent, too." And they created
Bangladesh.
>> Okay. Well, India has five times more
people than Pakistan does. And the
Bangladeshies like the Indians, and the
Afghans like the Indians and hate the
Pakistanis. So if you're Pakistan and
you're outmanned and surrounded by your
enemies, you going to win that fight?
>> Yeah. They don't seem to have like a lot
of friends.
>> No.
>> Right.
>> No. Cuz they write threatening letters
and expect immediate action.
>> I love that they wanted a retraction.
>> Yeah. A retraction.
>> Last time I was in your country, I land
I ran the greatest targeting mission in
modern history. Don't [__] with me.
>> That's right. And he wants a he he
neglected to say in the letter that his
prime minister is in prison right now.
>> Oh, he's in prison. Why is he in prison?
>> Oh, for all kinds of reasons. Treason
and
>> he's still prime minister.
>> No, no, they deposed him.
>> So, he's not running it from the prison
cell.
>> No. Well, he's trying. He's running the
party from his prison cell. Got it. They
got a new prime minister.
>> Ah, it's so awkward.
>> Yeah. And he wants an apology from me.
Now I think you should apologize to all
of the people of Pakistan for being a
you know corrupt
>> typical corrupt leader in Pakistan.
They're all corrupt. Listen, one time I
was with uh with a colleague, a more
senior colleague. We went to see Benazir
Bhau. We went to see Benazir Bhau. She
was in exile in Dubai [snorts] and um
her husband was this guy Zardari, I
think his first name is Hussein,
something like that. And uh
so we're at the uh we're at her
beachfront mansion, her $10 million
beachfront mansion in Dubai. This is a
woman who was making, you know, 60 grand
a year as prime minister.
>> Hey, listen. Good investor,
>> right?
So we hear a car pulling up outside and
she said something off-handedly that has
just been ingrained in my mind ever
since. She says, [snorts] "So help me
God. If he's pulling up in another
Bentley, I'm going to lose my mind."
[laughter]
[clears throat] And my boss and I kind
of look at each other like,
"Corrupt a little bit?"
>> Yeah.
>> You make 60 grand a year. How many
Bentleys do you have with your $10
million beachfront house in Dubai? And
then she went back, became prime
minister again, got shot in the head.
Now he's the president of Pakistan. her
husband, her corrupt husband.
>> Funny how the world works.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, that is the thing. The
patterns are the same everywhere in
different different societies. Human
nature.
>> It's human nature. You get people that
get into powerful positions that have
connections to be able to do things that
the average person can't.
>> Whether it's legal or not, they do it.
>> It's you're 100% it's it is human
nature. And like now in the internet
era, we can just see it more right in
front.
>> I think you're exactly right about that.
Yeah, the the information is much more
re readily available for us. It's just
there almost instantaneously.
How much in your career at CIA did you
either see directly or get an inkling or
a vibe
of
say elite forces that were not a part of
CIA playing roles or having say or
having some sort of influence over
decisions that the agency was making.
>> I didn't.
>> Never.
>> No. It was always the other way around.
After 911, we were short on um special
forces guys. You know, we we had this
thing called the special activities
division and then within the
counterterrorism center, there was the
special activities group. Um but we
needed
operators like not the ones like John
that were going to, you know, whine and
dine the guy and recruit him. Exactly.
And so we just borrowed people from the
special forces. So all of a sudden, I
mean like in in the matter of a week or
two after 911,
>> we've got SEALs, we have Delta, we have
Rangers, we have all these people,
>> and they're all
they're not what you might imagine.
They're not they're not these buff, you
know, [snorts] hemen that stepped out of
a magazine. They had five days beard, a
little bit of a gut. they could do some
heavy drinking and then get up and run
five miles, which I never understood.
Um, but they they knew exactly what the
mission was and by God, they were happy
to get on a plane, jump out the back of
it, and then do the mission and then
figure out how to rescue them later.
>> I've had a couple of those guys sitting
here.
>> Yeah, they're they're very, very tough
guys. Yeah,
>> they're built a little different.
>> Yeah, they are. I've never understood
how
I've never understood how guys like that
can negotiate
the
psychological weight of what comes with
their jobs. It is a the fact that you
haven't figured that out is not
reassuring because I sit here and wonder
the same thing sometimes. There is the
only thing I can come up with is there's
just a different gene. I think that's
it. I've got two friends. One was a
medic um on Seal Team 2. He's an older
guy. He's about eight years older than I
am. So, this is when the SEAL teams were
first created out of what used to be
called the underwater demolition teams.
And I've got a buddy who's currently a
SEAL. I won't say which team. He's the
son-in-law of a very close friend of
mine.
He does struggle with these issues. My
my older friend from Seal Team 2 sleeps
like a baby every night. No problem.
>> I think it's person to person.
>> I think it is
>> right.
>> Yeah.
>> But also they pick certain guys for
certain teams or certain missions.
>> That's right.
>> Who maybe they've
tested under scrutiny and stress. Not to
say, by the way, that sometimes once the
guys are done their career and come
home, they don't bring it home with
them. frequently do.
>> They frequently do and it's it's a sad
thing to see.
>> It's sad, but when when they're in
there, there's something about like
reach go
>> mission
>> and that's it.
>> All about the mission.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, glad they're on my side,
though.
>> Yeah, me too.
>> Right.
>> Yep. Got that right.
>> So, they were just And I mean, I've
talked with guys about this before. It
was obviously like a [__] show right
after 9/11. All hands on deck. But
>> basically a lot the way you're
explaining it is a lot of these guys
minus just some of the basic like on the
ground forces we know from the
paramilitary operation that happened
right away in Afghanistan. But a lot of
these guys were literally like hey
you're in you're right in you're in
>> done. They just showed up one day. I'm
telling you at
>> at the counterterrorism center
>> we we more than doubled in size within
two three days.
>> Wow. And then even after that all these
all these special forces guys just
arrived like okay where do we go and
then they started doing their thing.
>> And when how soon was it after the
towers came down that you were first
approached about with the enhanced
interrogation?
>> Oh it was quite some time. Towers came
down in September 11th. We started
bombing Afghanistan in early October.
Um, it was in late October that Mitchell
and Jessen were introduced to George
Tennant at a at a cocktail party. They
pitched the so-called enhanced
interrogation techniques. I think we
signed the contract in January.
Uh, and then we were just waiting to see
who's the first guy we're going to
catch. We caught up with a beta in
March.
>> Yeah, I was going to say we're going to
Pakistan
>> and then I was approached the first week
of May
>> of 2002.
>> Okay. And then you were still in there
for a few years afterwards. I mean,
obviously that is the core part of your
story. We've told that on episode 249
and 250 a bunch before. We don't have to
go through all that.
>> Sure.
>> But
>> that was a disturbing thing that you saw
at CIA.
>> Yeah.
Are there other things now years later
that you're willing to talk about that
you came across that maybe didn't
involve you directly like that where
people were like, "Hey, we want to
actually bring you in on this that you
just found viciously disturbing that
they were doing?"
>> No. Um I all throughout my CIA career I
I worked with people who were doing
their jobs to the highest ethical
standard. It was it was
because it post 911.
>> Mhm.
>> And everybody just kind of went nuts
because this was the greatest
intelligence failure in the CIA's
history and because it was specific to
the counterterrorism center. I think
that's why there was so much that was
sort of revealed to me. But otherwise,
no. In fact, one time
one time I was the notetaker. I was I
was living in Bahrain at the time and um
and uh Ambassador David Ransom, just an
absolutely lovely guy, one of the just
finest human beings I've ever worked
for. He was a terrific ambassador and
just a just a really great guy. Um he
would frequently ask me to be the
notetaker in his meetings with the uh
Minister of Foreign Affairs. And the
minister liked me and I liked him. His
English was better than mine. Crazy as
that might sound.
>> But um
if there was something sensitive that
the ambassador needed to raise, he would
always mention it to me in the car on
the way to the foreign ministry like,
"Don't let me forget to say X." And I'd
jot down a note. So we went to see the
foreign minister one time and um
and he did forget to say X. And so at
the end of the meeting, these meetings
would go two hours. He turned to me and
he said, "Is there anything else? Is
there anything that I'm forgetting?" And
I said, "Yes, there's the issue with
Ambassador soandso."
And he said, "Oh, that's right." and he
said uh he said to the foreign minister,
"One of my predecessors here in Bahrain,
it's come to my attention
uh is now working for the Bob Dole
campaign and we understand that he may
come out here and ask you for money. It
is illegal for a foreign national to
contribute money to an American
political campaign." So, I just wanted
to give you a heads up. H. And the
minister says, "Oh, he's already been
here. We gave him $50,000. We didn't
realize it was illegal, but he went to
see the Amir." And the Amir gave him
$50,000.
[snorts] So, we get back in the car and
the ambassador says, "Listen, that last
part, don't put that in the cable." He
said, "That's a hornet's nest that I
don't think either one of us want to be
involved involved in." So, I didn't put
it in the cable. You break the cable out
by issue like the ambassador's meeting
with the foreign minister Middle East
peace, the ambassador's meeting with
foreign minister uh the military
agreement with the United States,
ambassadors meeting with the foreign
minister Iran and the threat from you
know whatever. He told me not to write
that.
This was like a month or two or three
before I I left to go back to
headquarters. And I thought about it and
thought about it and thought about it
and I thought, you know, for my own
selfish reasons, what happens if I go
for my next polygraph and they ask me if
I'm aware of a crime that I didn't
report?
>> Then then it's me, then I get fired. So
I just pick up the phone one day and I
call the general counsel's office. Guy a
guy answers [snorts] the phone, George,
and I said, "Hi, my name's John Kuryaku.
I'm in the uh office of Near Eastern
South Asian Analysis. He goes, "Wait,
Kuryaku,
are you from Ferrell, Pennsylvania?" And
I go, "What?" I go, "Yeah, I was born in
Frell, Pennsylvania." He said, "Is your
dad Chris?" And I said, "Yeah, you know
my dad?" And he said, "Your dad was the
best man in my in-laws wedding."
>> Oh my god.
>> And I said, "Oh, cool." He says, "Let's
have coffee." I said, "Okay." Better
than just reporting this crime over the
phone to a stranger.
>> So with me in the cafeteria, nice guy.
We're still friendly. Not friends, but
we're friendly. So, uh, [snorts]
so I said, you know, there's something I
I'm aware of. I don't know if it's a big
deal or not. It kind of feels like it
might be a big deal, but I don't want it
to trip me up on the polygraph. So, I
told him and he's like, oh yeah, that's
a felony.
And I said, okay, so like, so I'm done.
I don't have to write it write it down
or anything. He said, put it in an email
and send it to me. He said, I I'll send
it over to DOJ. But at the very least,
we have to report it because if word
gets back to DOJ that you knew about it
or I knew about it or your ambassador
knew about it, we're all liable to be
prosecuted.
>> So I sent him an email and uh I don't
know a year later or so since he was
Greek and we had this Greek American
kind of group at the agency. We would
have lunch together once a month after
that once George Tennant became
director. Um, I asked him what ever
happened to uh that thing. He said,
"They didn't give a [__] Nothing ever
happened."
I said, "Okay, well, we did the right
thing."
>> You did the right thing. I wonder if it
had had two zeros at the end of that,
two extra zeros if they would have given
a little more of a [__]
>> right?
>> I mean, 50K from the Amir feels like
grab grab that change off the ashtray.
>> Listen, you know what I mean? the the
DCM, the deputy chief of mission,
another good guy. His wife uh developed
a very serious case of breast cancer
while while we were there, and she had
to be medevaced back to the United
States. And the DCM went to uh curtail
his his position. He had to go back,
take care of his wife, etc., etc. They
had a nine-year-old daughter at the
time.
>> This box arrives from the Royal Diwan.
It's just a box wrapped in brown paper.
And um
and he said to me, "I got something from
the royal diwan." And I said, "Oh,
that's kind of cool. I never got
anything from the royalty dwan, the
royal palace."
And he says, "Don't leave.
I'm thinking I might need a witness."
And I said, "Okay." He opens it up.
$50,000 in cash with a getwell card to
his wife. That's what lovely people they
were. Mhm.
>> They are. They remain lovely people. We
can't accept $50,000. So, I walked 20
feet to the ambassador's office and
knocked on the door and I said,
"Ambassador, you're going to want to see
this." So, he comes over. He's like,
"Oh, for God's sake." And he said, "I I
just got it from the Royal Dwan." And he
said, "Okay, we need to count it. We
need witnesses." So, we counted it all
out. It was 50,000. And then I wrote a
cable to the Treasury Department saying,
"We're pouching back $50,000." That's
from the Amir. And it just goes into the
treasury
>> with our tax dollars.
>> Well, I guess thank you for the donation
to our tax revenue.
>> Yeah,
>> there's something gets used, right?
>> Yeah, it gets used. Sure.
>> Do you think that
have you discovered things in the years
since being out of CIA, which has been a
long time now?
>> It's been out a long time. that
shocks you? And and and before you
answer that, the reason I asked that is
because
whether it's CIA, NSA, Sure.
>> wherever.
>> A brilliant tactic that all these
bureaucracies use is they
compartmentalize people to work on what
they're working on.
>> That's right. And that's what they want
you to do. They want you to be
compartmentalized so you're not
wondering what Fred's doing down the
hall. That's right.
>> Because it's none of your damn business
what Fred's doing down the hall.
>> So question remains. Are there things
that you've discovered that CIA does
that
>> doesn't have to be a fair bad reason
either, but
>> Oh, yeah. You know, I've been shocked.
Shocks you.
>> Yeah, I've been shocked. I was shocked
with the um Vault 7 revelations in 2017,
>> the Wikileaks stuff.
>> Yeah, that was shocking.
>> Now, what was that?
>> Vault 7 is very complicated. Among other
things, Vault 7 showed that the CIA had
develop had developed hacking capability
where they could hack into, you know,
the Russians, the Chinese, the Iranians,
the Cubans, whomever, hack the system
and then leave traces of the hack on
purpose, but with the traces written in
cerillic or Mandarin
>> so that once they were discovered by the
IT security guys in those countries,
they'd say, "Oh,
It was the Russians that did it. They
left, look, they left one little line of
code and it's all written in Russian
>> conveniently.
>> Yeah. So, that was one thing. Another
thing that Vault 7 taught us was that
the CIA um developed the capability to
take over your car remotely by hacking
into the car's computer system to drive
you off a bridge or into a tree.
>> Now, did we discover examples of where
this was used?
>> We did not. But the conventional wisdom
among the bloggerosphere is that, you
know, we should ask Michael Hastings
what happened to him.
>> Um,
>> Whoa.
>> Yeah. Vault 7 also told us that the CIA
is able to take over a smart TV to turn
the the speaker into a microphone so
that it broadcasts everything taking
place in the room with the TV still off.
Well, the TV's on. So, hello.
>> Pretty impressive.
>> Hello, Langley. Yeah. How are you?
>> So, what that told me, those are very
cool. And and there were a dozen more
things that were part of Vault 7. But
what it also told me is that [snorts]
the CIA is running parallel operations
with NSA. Why is the CIA developing this
stuff? This is NSA and DARPA that should
be doing it. And NSA and DARPA are doing
it,
>> but the CIA is also doing it. How do you
like what? Because
>> on the one hand
they have so much money that they can't
spend it all
>> so they just make their own NSA, make
their own DARPA. I have a buddy I sat
next to him for the first three and a
half years of my career. He's now the
deputy director of the CIA for
innovation. Like what's that? He was
always a computer nerd.
>> Yeah. And I remember he got a he got an
award like 1991 because he came up with
a program uh to make a very crude family
tree. Like computers were new to us at
the time. When I first started, I had
this big box that had a green screen. It
was about that big called a Delta data.
And I had an IBM Select Electric 3
typewriter next to me because half of
what we did was on the uh typewriter
still. So he came up with this crude
family tree so we could do the Saudi
royal family, the Kuwaiti royal family,
Bahraini royal family, just so it's, you
know, clear when you're doing your
analysis. And they were like, "Wow, you
did that on this new computer. That's
amazing. Here's $500 and an exceptional
performance award. Now he's the deputy
director of the CIA for innovation,
which tells me that he's in charge of
all this crazy [__] that we're reading
about at Wikileaks."
>> That's what I don't understand, though.
Like
why even have
DARPA or NSA if it's not just a
department of like CIA or and the other
way around with CIA being a department?
You know what I mean? Like why do you
even have separation? Because the same
you may I'll give you an example. You
may call on
>> [__] Tim Cook at Apple to take care
of something they need. If you're DARPA,
it's like CIA can call them too.
>> Yeah, sure. So why aren't they all just
under one roof?
>> Often times it's a bureaucratic pissing
match where the Secretary of Defense
will say, "Well, C CIA does its own
thing for its own reasons. We're very
specific. Our mission is, you know, to
protect the homeland and our troops and
whatever." CIA is like, "We don't really
give a [__] about the troops. We don't
have any any thing to do with the troops
except maybe we'll see them in the
cafeteria when we're at some base
somewhere. So we want it for CIA
reasons." And NSA is like, "Whoa, wait a
minute. we're NSA. This is exactly what
we're supposed to be doing, so we're
going to be doing it.
>> But again, when you have so much money
that you can't spend it all in a fiscal
year, you end up just replicating
>> uh what the other guys are doing.
>> And does Congress even actually know
what kind of money
>> that CIA has? No.
>> How does that get hidden?
[clears throat] single year, year after
year after year after year, Congress
appropriates more money than the Defense
Department asks for.
>> I wonder why.
>> Yeah, cuz then you're you're not weak on
defense. Those pinkos otherwise, you
know. Yeah. and and there's how many
trillions of dollars missing and after
how many years of of internal audits
Price Waterhouse Cooper just gave up and
said we don't know where this money
went. It's just gone.
>> How do you
like what what kind of
I guess look through, see through, work
with, however you want to say it, did
you have with NSA
>> during your career for things you did
and what was that like?
>> I had a good relationship with NSA. I
made a point of making that long drive
out to NSA at least once a year just to
say, "Hey, how you guys doing? What are
you working on? Let's go have a coffee
in the cafeteria." And then we would
invite them to come over to the agency.
They would always come like six or eight
at a time and we'd spend the day and
take them to the gift shop and whatever.
>> She got along.
>> Oh yeah. Always got along. And then they
would they would call and say, "Listen,
we're going to publish something in
about an hour, but you need you need to
know what this is because you work on
XYZ issue." And they would give me a
heads up so I could call the seventh
floor and say, "Listen, NSA is coming
out with something big. This is what
they're going to say." Um, and that was
a valuable relationship.
Um,
even operationally
I had a good relationship with NSA to
the point where in one of my overseas
tours I worked closely with an NSA
officer and he really did me a solid.
Um,
there were a couple of phone numbers I
asked him to just start intercepting and
tell me if there's anything interesting.
and just to be a nice guy. He also began
intercepting
the phone of one of my sources.
>> And so he said to me one day, "Hey, I I
have a present for you." And he gives me
this file and it's a transcript of
everything that my source has said. And
I was like, "This is [__] brilliant."
So now I can say, "Hey, do you ever talk
to soand so
because I know it's there. I know he
does." And then if he says, "Yeah,
actually I talked to I talked to him on
Tuesday." You did? What did he say? And
then he'll just pair it back. So I know
he's telling the truth. That's called
operational vetting.
>> And so I can write to headquarters and
say I know for 100% certainty that he's
telling me the truth.
>> Wow. So there that's interesting because
you always hear about like this inter
agency rivalry and stuff and you would
think that when CIA has their own
innovation and technology design ar
>> working together. It's just weird.
>> Yeah. And then throw in throw in the
whole nonsense about Inqel and Palunteer
>> where
>> please do throw it in John
>> where the CIA now is in the venture
capital business for a profit.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Which is illegal. Um they
>> not if you're writing the laws. Not not
if you're writing the laws where
the CIA in the immediate aftermath of
9/11 created something called inqell
which is a cutesy you know play on intel
with Q from the James Bond movies in the
middle like I hope they didn't pay
somebody to come up with that but anyway
um it's like the kind of famous story
that the
>> that the tourism board of Scotland spent
$150,000
hiring a consulting firm to come up with
a tourism slogan and for $150,000 they
came up with visit Scotland.
[laughter]
>> It's true. Google it.
>> Well, that's the consulting class for
you.
>> Yeah. So, anyway, um
they came up with InQel. InQEL's very
first investment was not a lot. It was
like I I I can't remember if it's a
million and a half. I think it's a
million and a half to Palunteer
>> in like 03, something like that.
>> 02. Yeah.
>> And um and now Palunteer is a trillion
dollar company that makes most of its
money contracting with the CIA. It's
publicly traded company and everybody
listen I subscribe to Barrens every
week. It's like buy Palunteer, buy
Palunteer, buy Palunteer.
>> What do you think of their capabilities
and
what they're trying to do just right
now.
>> The agency.
>> No, Palanteer,
which is the agency.
>> Yeah. Which kind of is the agency. You
know, I I worry very much about about
It's even too weak to say encroachment
on our civil liberties. I I worry about
the violation of our civil liberties
very much.
>> It is against the law for the CIA to spy
on Americans. Period.
>> Period.
>> That's it. It's against the law, but
they do every day. It's against the law
and it's actually a part of NSA's
charter that they cannot spy on
Americans. You cannot intercept the
communications of Americans. And that's
practically all they do, right? where
they had to build this new facility out
in Utah in the desert that can hold
every phone call, every text message,
every email from every American for the
next 500 years.
>> 500 years.
>> 500 years. How about this? Even the FBI
no longer has to get a warrant
um to take your communications,
right? The metadata from your
communications is for sale. All they
have to do is call T-Mobile and say,
"Hey, uh, I want Julian Dory's uh,
communications. Here's the five grand
that you charge."
>> That's the thing. What Palanteer does is
a whole another level. And I want to
stay with that for a second, but I've
had Mike Yaggley, who I mentioned
earlier, sitting in this chair twice in
the past two months. And the way that he
got back in the crosshairs of the
government where they went, "What the
fuck?" was he was working on
amalgamating marketing data and he
realized what you could just buy
publicly legally. And so he bought a
bunch of data in North Carolina around
Fort Bragg and tracked a bunch of phones
leaving Fort Bragg going to a
neighborhood about 45 minutes away that
was a little bit higher income, meaning
these are most likely special forces.
track down the names of everyone who
lived there, where they went, what they
did, realized they were special forces,
then watched them and charted them, go
across to Syria once every other month
for 5 days to Lafar's concrete company
or Lefar concrete company where which
was obviously a cover for some
undercover operation they were doing.
Yeah. And he went to the government and
showed them and he said, "I did this in
my bedroom.
>> What do you think China's doing?"
Jason Leupold, who is a an investigative
journalist for Bloomberg, formerly of
Vice, BuzzFeed, the LA Times, absolutely
brilliant journalist.
He was once called a Foya terrorist by
the uh Pentagon spokesman because he has
filed more foyer requests than any other
person in American history. He broke the
Hillary Clinton email story just by
>> sending in a foyer request. Well, he
he revealed the location of the CIA's
secret um drone surveillance base in
Baluchistan, Pakistan. And you know how
he did it? He read somewhere that drones
use a certain kind of aviation fuel. And
so he just did a Freedom of Information
Act request to the Pentagon for uh the
locations of of all of the um deliveries
of this aviation fuel. And like millions
of dollars of fuel were going into this,
you know, desert base in southwestern
Pakistan, this top secret base that's
not top secret anymore because the
Freedom of Information Act has told us
so.
For all the smart guys in government who
are supposed to keep a secret and claim
to be able to keep the secret and
whatever, they literally write stuff in
the modern metadata that someone at home
can get.
>> That's it.
>> That's right.
>> That's why it gets hard to certain
secrets.
>> I wonder
>> it gets hard to believe that they
wouldn't be able to be uncovered in some
ways. And that gets to some of the
weirdest [__] if you start to think
about it. Yeah.
>> But we got we got off we're talking
about the regular public metadata right
here. But Palanteer themselves, I mean,
that's a whole another level.
>> Yeah. So what kinds of things right now
are you most concerned about with what
they're doing?
>> You know, we we don't really know a lot
of what Palanteer does. Most of it is
classified and even then it's classified
at the top secret level because it
involves technology.
And we know that they have massive
uh contracts with uh the CIA. And it's
not just the CIA. They work with DARPA.
They work with the Pentagon at large.
They work with NSA. They're all over
government now. They didn't even exist
20 years ago practically.
>> That's a Peter Teal company, too.
>> Yeah.
>> Very powerful guy.
>> Very powerful.
>> What do What do you think of the Alex
Garp guy who runs it?
>> You know, I did a little
I was I was hired by an interest group
to do a little biographical
mockup of the two of them. And they're
exactly the kind of guys that the CIA
would want to be
>> doing business with. They're um
conservatives.
They are religious.
Um they are extremely patriotic but
driven by profit.
>> And they'll do as they're told and
they'll keep their mouth shut.
>> Karp is is militarily industrially
conservative, but he's technically a
Democrat. Right.
>> Yeah. I think he never switched his
party affiliation. Yeah. He's like a
little hard to put in a box with some
things, but
>> and he has said that in interviews where
>> party politics don't hold any interest
for him,
>> right?
>> Yeah. It's tough
>> when you start talking about surveilling
citizens though at like a protest you
don't like or something like that
>> with drones the size of a of a bumblebee
or or a wasp. Yeah.
>> So, no one can even see it.
>> Yeah.
>> We're getting to the birds aren't real
territory.
>> Very much. Very much. Yes, we are.
Yes. It's frightening.
>> What about when they're a a company that
is contracted by CIA and for all intents
and purposes created by CIA sense that
they funded them? How about them working
on other conflicts around the world
though? Isn't that like a conflict of
interest?
>> Four other countries.
>> Yes,
>> I would say it is. But they would
probably argue that they've stovepiped
everything and that there's no
crossover. that if they're working on a
CIA project, it's just these people in
this box working on a CIA project. If
they have an MI6 project, it's over here
and never the two shall meet. But what
about a Braxis Corporation? Here's
here's another one. So,
right around the time that I came home
from Athens in 2000, there was a kind of
a wave of senior level um retirements.
And these were all pretty important
guys, you know, the head of European
operations, the head of near east
operations, the head of domestic
operations, whatever. And um
they decided to just create an LLC where
they could go, you know, smoke cigars
and drink coffee and hang out and play
peuckle all day and uh take a tax
deduction.
And so you got to show
you got to show
a gain in two out of five years in order
to keep your LLC.
So they put in for a couple what they
call butts and seats uh contracts where
you just take anybody who's got a
security clearance, put them in these
seats, let them do data entry for six
months, and then the contract's over and
they all get fired. They all have 1099s
anyway, so you don't care.
Well, now they're like a, you know, 20
billion dollar company because
at headquarters, I remember this
happening at the time. They're like,
"Oh, we we have a real need for XYZ."
And somebody says, "What about Jack?
Jack's got this Abraasis thing now.
>> We know everybody. They're all friends
of ours.
>> Greatest shell company of all time."
>> And then there you go.
>> Yeah.
>> And it was taken over once, twice, three
times. It changed its name a couple
times. I think it's still known as a
brais based in Tyson's Corner, Virginia.
These guys never expected to be
billionaires. [laughter] They were just
looking for a tax deduction on their
coffee and cigars.
>> Oh, that's the definition of finding
money. [laughter] It's like, oh, there
it is.
>> There it is. I might as well take it.
>> But like back to Palunteer though,
they're So you would imagine they're
compartmentalizing for different
countries.
Doesn't it get weird though when you
have an organization that has intel
about every one of these countries
individually themselves that allegedly
they're not passing back the CIA
>> especially when the conventional wisdom
is that this is a CIA company?
>> Yeah. Like wouldn't doesn't that feel a
little bit like it could be the start of
a 1984 novel? I would guess
that,
okay, if they're working for the Brits,
the Australians, the Canadians, the New
Zealanders, we don't care.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Because Five Eyes, we're all
sharing everything anyway.
>> Okay.
>> But let's say they're working for the
French, the Germans,
whatever. The Hungarians, who knows? I
don't know.
Um, I am going to say that an officer
from the CIA's
um, National Resources Division, those
CIA officers around the United States,
the National Resources Division was
created just so when a corporate CEO or
other officer went to a denied area, say
he went to Moscow for a meeting or
Beijing for a meeting, somebody from the
NR division would go and say, "Hey, you
know, I'm from the CIA. you're a
patriot. Can I ask you some questions
about your trip? They always always say
yes
>> because they're patriots. I would guess
that with Palunteer,
they there are regular routine meetings
within our division
saying, "Ah, you know, I was in uh the
United Arab Emirates the other day and I
ran into soand so and this is what he's
interested in." And you know, something
like that.
>> Yeah, that one just scares me. I don't
know. It's also like the guy, you did
the biography on him, but the guys who
are in charge just seem a little
>> Teal and Karp when they talk, they seem
a little divorced from reality,
particularly of the everyman, to be
clear.
>> And I think that's how it starts.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. [clears throat]
>> Totally agree.
>> Look at Elon Musk. You know
>> what about Elon?
>> I mean, he's not the same Elon Musk from
10 or 20 years ago.
>> I told you my my Elon Musk story.
>> Yeah. back when you met him at the
across the street from the White House
at the hotel.
>> Hey, Adam's hotel.
>> When you say he's not the same guy like
just normal personality changes or
>> I think it's a combination of things.
You know, he just signed a $1 trillion
contract with Tesla. He's going to have
to make a bunch of a bunch of targets to
uh to collect that money. But
>> it's no longer about
the technology. It's no longer about,
for example, when is the last time you
heard him talk about colonizing Mars?
Time was you couldn't get him to shut up
about colonizing Mars. What about the
high-speed vacuum tube that we were
supposed to go from from LA to San
Francisco in 45 minutes? What happened
to that,
>> John? Men, I when I saw that trillion
dollar deal, I had a thought that I was
like, damn, I should have had this
thought [__] 15 years ago. Like when
you look at the math cuz it was already
true then. But men are becoming
countries.
>> Yes,
>> he's a country.
>> Yeah,
>> it's about to be worth a trillion
dollars in
>> you know if I were Elon Musk I would
worry about
you know and eat the rich movement.
>> Of course
>> I I really would I would worry for my
own safety.
>> Well, he has positioned himself I'm not
even saying this is wrong at all. I'm
saying it's just interesting. He's
positioned himself as the man of the
people who saved free speech and is
speaking for the everyman and
>> funded Trump who represents the everyman
and stuff like that. But you are
absolutely right that who said this the
other day? I want to give them credit,
but it's like it should be the Captain
Obvious point, but they just put it so
beautifully and it's exactly what it is.
They're like the future isn't a division
of left right problems. That's just what
we're looking at right now. It's up
down. It's elite and everyone else. And
when you look at any empire that has
fallen around the world, one of the many
traits of the falling of the empire, and
I would argue it's probably the most
important trait is a severe separation
and disagreement in future and hope as
it pertains to the lower classes and the
elites. And we talked about it earlier
was something else, but you see that
wealth cap divide. This is something
that's happening around the world. And
you
are getting so wealthy that you know
chump change of their wealth could solve
world problems. And I say this as
someone who is in no way a socialist or
anything like that. I I don't agree with
that ideology. But
>> you know does a person need a trillion
dollars? No the [__] they don't. Sorry.
Nope.
>> Sorry. I I I don't I'm I don't think I
think it's a slippery slope to say, "Oh,
you make that illegal." But like you got
to have some self-awareness or
something. I don't know. give some of it
away. I I I don't know. It's easy for me
to sit here as a guy who's worth. Warren
Buffett has famously said that he's
leaving his children literally nothing.
>> Respect that a lot.
>> I do too. Every cent of it goes to
charity.
>> And you know what? If I don't know how
his kids or grandkids feel about that,
but I would imagine if they get older
and wiser, especially like the grandkids
and the ones who were younger, they'll
they'll thank them for that.
>> Yeah, they will.
>> You're not you you don't have any
fulfillment in life when you're just
giving money. Mm-
>> I I always in my old career I I saw
that, you know,
>> the kids that had the trust funds, they
were just dead.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> They were dead.
>> Yeah. And they never really reached any
kind of potential.
>> Nope. They were always living in the
shadow of something that wasn't theirs.
And I felt I actually felt bad for a lot
of them, you know, like they didn't
choose to have that happen,
>> you know?
>> Yeah.
>> But
>> agreed.
>> I I I just think there's something about
the purpose of life that like you make
your own way, whatever that is, you You
know, I do something public. I want to
be the greatest in the world at it. I
will be one day. You know, I'm going to
have kids.
>> Yep.
>> I want them to go do their own [__]
thing. I don't want them to worry about
like what their dad did and
>> have to [clears throat] none of my kids,
none of my five kids have any interest
in doing what I did, which I think is
wonderful. And they've all done things
completely different from each other. My
oldest is a bond trader
>> in uh Chicago. My second is an
elementary school music teacher in North
Carolina. My third is getting a degree
in supply chain economics. My fourth
changes her mind, but right now she's
studying engineering. And my fifth is is
in eighth grade.
>> But uh they're all they have completely
different interests, which I think is
the the best and the healthiest.
>> And that's and and that you know I just
think that leads to more happiness that
way, too. And it's great that you
support that as well. Also, not for
nothing, I wouldn't want to follow in
your footsteps after what they did to
you as well. So, maybe that was one good
thing come out of it. Right.
>> That's right. [laughter]
That's right.
>> John, it is always a pleasure, man.
We'll do this again.
>> Always enjoy coming here and seeing you.
>> Love talking with you about world
events. You have such a good outlook on
stuff. So, until next time.
>> Good. We'll have everything linked down
below for you. Your ex, your substack,
your new show, all that.
>> Yeah. Yeah, that sounds great.
>> Okay.
>> Great. I look forward to it. Thank All
right, everybody else, you know what it
is. Give it a thought. Get back to me.
Peace. Haven't already subscribed,
please subscribe and hit the like button
on this video. It is a huge, huge help.
And if you'd like to check out this
clip's full podcast episode, that link
is in the description below or right
here. And finally, you can follow me on
Instagram and X by using the links in my
description below.